README.md, before:

# opg-ewbi-operator

OPG EWBI Operator implements a subset of the OPG East/WestBound Interface and translates these requests to k8s CRD resources.

## ⚠️ Under development 

**IMPORTANT**: This solution is a work in progress

## Description

The repository implements a subset of the GSMA OPG East/WestBound Interfaces, including a k8s Operator mapping the OPG objects to k8s CRD instances, and viceversa. It relies on other components (e.g. NearbyOne's Okto orchestrator) also monitoring the generated CRs to trigger the actions required to deploy the requested applications on the federated cluster. And also the other way around, other components can create the CRs that would trigger the OPG East/Westbound Interface to interact with federated orchestrator to deploy applications externally.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- go version v1.22.0+
- docker version 17.03+.
- kubectl version v1.11.3+.
- Access to a Kubernetes v1.11.3+ cluster.

### Configuration: platform ARM64 or platform AMD64
This code is designed to run on both ARM64 and AMD64 platforms, but to enable this, some changes need to be made to the following files: values.yaml in (dist/chart), the makefile, and docker-compose.yaml.

1. For the **value.yaml** in OPG-EWBI-OPERATOR (**dist/chart**), you need to change the repository parameter values (line 7 and line 49) as follows:
    
    **For Linux/ARM64**:
    - Line 7: ```ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-operator```
    - Line 49: ```ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-api```
    
    **For Linux/AMD64**:
    - Line 7: ```ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-operator-amd```
    - Line 49: ```ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-api-amd```

2. For the **makefile** in OPG-EWBI-OPERATOR, you need to change the line 1-3 as follwos:

    **For Linux/ARM64**:
    - Line 1: ```IMG ?= ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-operator:neonephos```
    - Line 2: ```HOSTIMG ?= ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-api:neonephos```
    - Line 3: ```PLATFORM ?= linux/arm64```
      
    **For Linux/AMD64**:
    - Line 1: ```IMG ?= ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-operator-amd:neonephos```
    - Line 2: ```HOSTIMG ?= ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-api-amd:neonephos```
    - Line 3: ```PLATFORM ?= linux/amd64```

3. For the docker-compose.yaml in OPG-EWBI-API, you need to uncomment the following lines 5-6, 19-20, 28-29, 36-37 as follow and changes the line 10:

    **For Linux/ARM64**:
     - Uncommnet the lines 5,19,28 and 36 and comment the lines 6,20,29 ans 37
     - Line 10: ```image: ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-api:neonephos```
       
    **For Linux/AMD64**:
     - Uncomment the lines 6,20,29 and 37 and comment the lines 5,19,28 and 36
     - Line 10: ```image: ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-api-amd:neonephos```
 
## Deploy the federation manager
Install operator in host namespace, set API nodeport and set CRD to true to also install CRDs NodePorts are exposed in case testing outside of the cluster is needed. 

**⚠️ Currently, the file are setted for Linux/arm64 platforms. If you need to build images for Linux/amd64 platforms fllown the the previsuly steps (Configuration: platform ARM64 or platform AMD64)**
 
1. Create a `.netrc` file in your home directory (`~/.netrc` on macOS/Linux) with the following format:
    
    ```
    machine ghcr.io
    login your-username
    password your-token
    ```
    
    Make sure the file has appropriate permissions:
    ```bash
    chmod 600 ~/.netrc
    ```
2. ```git clone https://github.com/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-operator```
4. After the download, open this folder via terminal and exec the following command: 
  ```make docker-build-controller```
      **or**
  ```docker build . --no-cache -t ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-operator:neonephos ```
5. ```bash git clone https://github.com/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-api```
6. After the download, open this folder via terminale and exec the following command:
  ```docker-compose build federation --no-cache ```
   **or**
  ```docker compose build federation --no-cache ```
7. ```docker login ghcr.io```
8. In your cluster create a new namesapce (e.g. ```kubectl create ns federation```) after this exec this command. (replace $username and $accessToken with your username and accessToken used for the docker login ghcr.io command)   
  ```bash
      kubectl -n federation create secret docker-registry opg-registry-secret \
      --docker-server=ghcr.io \
      --docker-username= $username \
      --docker-password= $accessToken
  ```
8. In the end exec this command (in **OPG-EWBI-OPERATOR folder** via terminal)
  ```bash
  helm install federation-manager dist/chart -n federation \
  --set federation.services.federation.nodePort=30080 \
  --set crd.enable=true
  ```
After this command the OPG-EWBI-CONTROLLER and OPG-EWBI-API, if everything goes well, they will be available.
By running the command kubectl get pods -A, you should see two pods running in the federation namespace with names like nearbyone-federation-api-XXX and opg-ewbi-operator-controller-manager-XXX.

Use the following commands only if we you want to push the latest version of the controller and the api in github pacakge

**For Linux/ARM64:**
```bash
docker push ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-operator:neonephos
docker push ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-api:neonephos
```
      
**For Linux/AMD64:** **⚠️ In this moment the images are not push on GitHub please exec the following commands**
```bash
docker push ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-operator-amd:neonephos
docker push ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-api-amd:neonephos
```
      
The Nearby code is written to work in both role (HOST and GUEST).
If you want test in local, you need two helm installation one for the host and one for the guest, use the following configuration of the helm command, but don't forget to follow the step 5-6 in both namespace (federation-host and federation-guest)

```bash
helm install federationhost dist/chart -n federation-host \
  --set federation.services.federation.nodePort=30080 \
  --set crd.enable=true
```

We set crd to false since we have already installed them

```bash
helm install federationguest dist/chart -n federation-guest \
--set federation.services.federation.nodePort=30081 \
--set crd.enable=false
```
**Choose the names you prefer for namespaces and helm; those listed here are provided as examples.**


### Test:

Create Client ID in identity provider and store in a federation on the host. This is not yet the establishment of the federation: This is done to link the federation to the clientID.

It is named ..Auth because it represents identity provider integration and representation in the cluster.

```bash
kubectl apply -f config/samples/federationHostAuth.yaml
```

Federation establishment: ON GUEST
```bash
kubectl apply -f config/samples/federationGuest.yaml
```

In federationGuest, you will see we define the URL of the EWBI API of the host.

Example:
http://nearbyone-federation-api.federation-host.svc.cluster.local:8080
(and the callback url. Bear in mind the callback flow is not complete)

You should see in the federation status the FederationContextId. Copy it and use this for the next CRs.
(FederationContextId uuid is currently generated from ClientID, so if you don't change the examples, they should work without modifying)

```bash
kubectl apply -f config/samples/fileGuest.yaml
kubectl apply -f config/samples/artifactGuest.yaml
kubectl apply -f config/samples/appGuest.yaml
kubectl apply -f config/samples/appInstGuest.yaml
```

You will see that, for each specific CR created in the guest, a new one is mirrored in the host, all happenning through the EWBI API.
Same will happen if you remove them, even federation.

If you delete guest ones, mirrored host resources will get deleted.

```bash
kubectl delete -f config/samples/fileGuest.yaml
kubectl delete -f config/samples/artifactGuest.yaml
kubectl delete -f config/samples/appGuest.yaml
kubectl delete -f config/samples/appInstGuest.yaml
```

Commit message:

Revise README with helm install and role.yaml updates
Updated instructions for helm install command and role.yaml.

README.md, after:

# opg-ewbi-operator

OPG EWBI Operator implements a subset of the OPG East/WestBound Interface and translates these requests to k8s CRD resources.

## ⚠️ Under development 

**IMPORTANT**: This solution is a work in progress

## Description

The repository implements a subset of the GSMA OPG East/WestBound Interfaces, including a k8s Operator mapping the OPG objects to k8s CRD instances, and viceversa. It relies on other components (e.g. NearbyOne's Okto orchestrator) also monitoring the generated CRs to trigger the actions required to deploy the requested applications on the federated cluster. And also the other way around, other components can create the CRs that would trigger the OPG East/Westbound Interface to interact with federated orchestrator to deploy applications externally.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- go version v1.22.0+
- docker version 17.03+.
- kubectl version v1.11.3+.
- Access to a Kubernetes v1.11.3+ cluster.

### Configuration: platform ARM64 or platform AMD64
This code is designed to run on both ARM64 and AMD64 platforms, but to enable this, some changes need to be made to the following files: values.yaml in (dist/chart), the makefile, and docker-compose.yaml.

1. For the **value.yaml** in OPG-EWBI-OPERATOR (**dist/chart**), you need to change the repository parameter values (line 7 and line 49) as follows:
    
    **For Linux/ARM64**:
    - Line 7: ```ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-operator```
    - Line 49: ```ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-api```
    
    **For Linux/AMD64**:
    - Line 7: ```ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-operator-amd```
    - Line 49: ```ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-api-amd```

2. For the **makefile** in OPG-EWBI-OPERATOR, you need to change the line 1-3 as follwos:

    **For Linux/ARM64**:
    - Line 1: ```IMG ?= ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-operator:neonephos```
    - Line 2: ```HOSTIMG ?= ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-api:neonephos```
    - Line 3: ```PLATFORM ?= linux/arm64```
      
    **For Linux/AMD64**:
    - Line 1: ```IMG ?= ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-operator-amd:neonephos```
    - Line 2: ```HOSTIMG ?= ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-api-amd:neonephos```
    - Line 3: ```PLATFORM ?= linux/amd64```

3. For the docker-compose.yaml in OPG-EWBI-API, you need to uncomment the following lines 5-6, 19-20, 28-29, 36-37 as follow and changes the line 10:

    **For Linux/ARM64**:
     - Uncommnet the lines 5,19,28 and 36 and comment the lines 6,20,29 ans 37
     - Line 10: ```image: ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-api:neonephos```
       
    **For Linux/AMD64**:
     - Uncomment the lines 6,20,29 and 37 and comment the lines 5,19,28 and 36
     - Line 10: ```image: ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-api-amd:neonephos```
 
## Deploy the federation manager
Install operator in host namespace, set API nodeport and set CRD to true to also install CRDs NodePorts are exposed in case testing outside of the cluster is needed. 

**⚠️ Currently, the file are setted for Linux/arm64 platforms. If you need to build images for Linux/amd64 platforms fllown the the previsuly steps (Configuration: platform ARM64 or platform AMD64)**
 
1. Create a `.netrc` file in your home directory (`~/.netrc` on macOS/Linux) with the following format:
    
    ```
    machine ghcr.io
    login your-username
    password your-token
    ```
    
    Make sure the file has appropriate permissions:
    ```bash
    chmod 600 ~/.netrc
    ```
2. ```git clone https://github.com/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-operator```
4. After the download, open this folder via terminal and exec the following command: 
  ```make docker-build-controller```
      **or**
  ```docker build . --no-cache -t ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-operator:neonephos ```
5. ```bash git clone https://github.com/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-api```
6. After the download, open this folder via terminale and exec the following command:
  ```docker-compose build federation --no-cache ```
   **or**
  ```docker compose build federation --no-cache ```
7. ```docker login ghcr.io```
8. In your cluster create a new namesapce (e.g. ```kubectl create ns federation```) after this exec this command. (replace $username and $accessToken with your username and accessToken used for the docker login ghcr.io command)   
  ```bash
      kubectl -n federation create secret docker-registry opg-registry-secret \
      --docker-server=ghcr.io \
      --docker-username= $username \
      --docker-password= $accessToken
  ```
8. Before the helm install command go here: dist/chart/templates/rbac/role.yaml and delete the namespace line (namespace: foo). We need to fix the error 
9. In the end exec this command (in **OPG-EWBI-OPERATOR folder** via terminal)
  ```bash
  helm install federation-manager dist/chart -n federation \
  --set federation.services.federation.nodePort=30080 \
  --set crd.enable=true
  ```
After this command the OPG-EWBI-CONTROLLER and OPG-EWBI-API, if everything goes well, they will be available.
By running the command kubectl get pods -A, you should see two pods running in the federation namespace with names like nearbyone-federation-api-XXX and opg-ewbi-operator-controller-manager-XXX.

Use the following commands only if we you want to push the latest version of the controller and the api in github pacakge

**For Linux/ARM64:**
```bash
docker push ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-operator:neonephos
docker push ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-api:neonephos
```
      
**For Linux/AMD64:** **⚠️ In this moment the images are not push on GitHub please exec the following commands**
```bash
docker push ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-operator-amd:neonephos
docker push ghcr.io/neonephos-katalis/opg-ewbi-api-amd:neonephos
```
      
The Nearby code is written to work in both role (HOST and GUEST).
If you want test in local, you need two helm installation one for the host and one for the guest, use the following configuration of the helm command, but don't forget to follow the step 5-6 in both namespace (federation-host and federation-guest)

```bash
helm install federationhost dist/chart -n federation-host \
  --set federation.services.federation.nodePort=30080 \
  --set crd.enable=true
```

We set crd to false since we have already installed them

```bash
helm install federationguest dist/chart -n federation-guest \
--set federation.services.federation.nodePort=30081 \
--set crd.enable=false
```
**Choose the names you prefer for namespaces and helm; those listed here are provided as examples.**


### Test:

Create Client ID in identity provider and store in a federation on the host. This is not yet the establishment of the federation: This is done to link the federation to the clientID.

It is named ..Auth because it represents identity provider integration and representation in the cluster.

```bash
kubectl apply -f config/samples/federationHostAuth.yaml
```

Federation establishment: ON GUEST
```bash
kubectl apply -f config/samples/federationGuest.yaml
```

In federationGuest, you will see we define the URL of the EWBI API of the host.

Example:
http://nearbyone-federation-api.federation-host.svc.cluster.local:8080
(and the callback url. Bear in mind the callback flow is not complete)

You should see in the federation status the FederationContextId. Copy it and use this for the next CRs.
(FederationContextId uuid is currently generated from ClientID, so if you don't change the examples, they should work without modifying)

```bash
kubectl apply -f config/samples/fileGuest.yaml
kubectl apply -f config/samples/artifactGuest.yaml
kubectl apply -f config/samples/appGuest.yaml
kubectl apply -f config/samples/appInstGuest.yaml
```

You will see that, for each specific CR created in the guest, a new one is mirrored in the host, all happenning through the EWBI API.
Same will happen if you remove them, even federation.

If you delete guest ones, mirrored host resources will get deleted.

```bash
kubectl delete -f config/samples/fileGuest.yaml
kubectl delete -f config/samples/artifactGuest.yaml
kubectl delete -f config/samples/appGuest.yaml
kubectl delete -f config/samples/appInstGuest.yaml
```
